An important upgrade last year was the implementation of the electro-pneumatic clutch actuation and control system.

This development allowed the elimination of the old mechanical system, consisting of a steel cord that connected the clutch rod, engine side, with the clutch lever positioned in the passenger compartment.

In this implementation, in order to overcome the holding load of the shaft exerted by the clutch springs, the driver used both hands to pull the lever completely.
The new system, consisting of an integrated steering wheel paddle, a solenoid valve, a flow regulator, a piston and a position sensor used for closed-loop control, has made the system for implementing the system more adaptable and less burdensome for the pilot. clutch, greatly improving driving ergonomics (now you pull with your little finger).

By pressing the paddle, a voltage signal is read by the control unit which converts it to a position reference that the clutch rod must reach. By controlling the opening of the solenoid valve with a variable duty cycle, the control unit modulates the flow of air that fills the chamber of the piston.

The piston connected to the clutch rod filling and increasing its pressure, thus exerting a force contrary to the tightness caused by the clutch springs, causing the rod to move.

By means of a constrained linear rod potentiometer, the control unit is able to monitor its actual displacement, correcting the PWM for controlling the solenoid valve by means of a PID control in order to reach the target with a minimum error. All in a few tenths of a second.