The electronic department mainly deals with the following works:

• Implement safety systems for the vehicle and the pilot. To achieve this goal we take care of the creation of electronic boards, in particular we work on the design of the circuits, we define the layout of the PCBs, we weld the components and finally we test the boards. Some of the cards made by us are:
	a. Battery management system: device that constantly checks the status of the battery (voltage and temperature);
	b. Insulation monitoring device: constantly check the isolation between high voltage and low voltage;
	c. Tractive system active light: light signal that warns if high voltage is enabled;
	d. Control unit: device that takes care of acquiring and processing the data of the sensors present in the machine, in most cases this also takes care of turning off the vehicle in case some component signals a critical problem. In addition, the control unit also takes care of communication with the inverters: it enables them when necessary and communicates to them information such as the speed requested by the pilot.

• Implement a telemetry that allows us to acquire data about the performance during the tests, so that the behavior of each component of the machine (electronic or not) can be constantly monitored and studied, and the members of the relevant department can understand how to improve it. To achieve this we have a device that "collects" all the useful data of the sensors and transmits them to a self-developed program that allows us to read them at any time.

• Design the battery configuration so that there is always energy available during rehearsals and races. In the car we have two batteries: one with high voltage that powers the motors through the inverters, and one with low voltage that feeds all the sensors and the electronic control and monitoring circuits. Both batteries use lithium polymer technology, a very compact and efficient solution.

• Other important work of the electronic department is the wiring: each cable is sized so that it can withstand the electric current that passes through it. In addition, the roads covered by the connections must be studied in order to avoid electromagnetic disturbances (caused by inverters and high voltage cables), so as to have a reliable communication between the various devices. To achieve this we also rely on CAN (Controller Area Network) communication that is robust and reliable.

• The electronic department also takes care of writing the necessary software to the programmable cards (for example control unit and battery management system), these software are written in such a way that the cards process and transmit the acquired data as quickly as possible. All programming is done in C language using the "Arduino IDE" and "Code Composer Studio" development environments. Among the various software developed by the team are those of the control unit, the battery management system and the program used for telemetry.