---
layout: post
title: posts.varano
date: 2018-07-16 10:02:28
description: Recap Varano
---

## RECAP Formula SAE Italy & Formula Electric Italy

We can not but be satisfied with the results achieved this year at the Italian Formula SAE and Formula Electric events.
Both divisions achieved their best ever results in Italy, the combustion took the 5th place overall while the electric division the 8th place.

! [Combustion](/images/posts/2018/07/16/cd.jpg)

COMBUSTION: the last day of competition ended with the endurance test, started on a very wet track and ended with a driving sun that completely dried the track, making driving with wet tires extremely complicated. Despite this the car has proven to be extremely performing and reliable and our drivers have managed to run with times very close to those recorded in dry conditions.
The consistency in other events, such as the 7th place in the Business Plan Presentation and some excellent placings such as the 5th place at the Skid Pad and, above all, the 1st place at the Cost Event allowed us to reach the best position ever in the history of the Race UP Team, a fifth place that bodes well for Formula Student Germany, which will be held in the Hockenheim circuit from the 6th to the 12th of August 2018.

The results in the individual events are as follows:

Cost Event: 100.00 pt; 1st place
BP Presentation: 64,394 pt; 7th place
Design Event: 88,776 pt 22nd Place
Acceleration: 69.670 pt; 15th place
Skid Pad: 48.517 pt; 5th place
Autocross: 90.690 pt; 12th place
Endurance & Efficiency: 209.653 pt; 11th place

! [Electric](/images/posts/2018/07/16/ed.jpg)

ELECTRIC: here too the team was able to achieve an excellent placing, considering that all the points have come from static events, the car for the first time in its history, has been declared eligible to run on track, and that is exactly what it will do in the coming months, refining the excellent work of this year of our boys.
In particular, the team shone in the Cost Report, reaching the second step of the podium and continued to be consistent in the Design Event, reaching an excellent fifth place and in the Business Plan Presentation ranking tenth. This can only make us hope for the future of the electric project.

The results in the individual events are as follows:

Cost Event: 95,708 pt; 2nd place
BP Presentation: 63,710 pt; 10th place
Design Event: 117,857 pt 5th Place

! [Group](/images/posts/2018/07/16/cded.jpg)